README.md, before:

# canada-api

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/canada-api?branch=main)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/canada-api) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/dnd-mdn/canada-api/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

Cross platform API for fetching public data from [canada.ca](https://www.canada.ca). 🇨🇦

## Install
### Browsers

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/canada-api@2.0.3"></script>
<script>
    ca.meta("en/department-national-defence").then(meta => {
        console.log(meta)
    })
</script>
```

### Nodejs

```javascript
const ca = require("canada-api")
ca.meta("en/department-national-defence")
```



## Core API

### `ca.fetch(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options) (Some limitations based on implementation)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Response} upon success

Uses [cross-fetch](https://github.com/lquixada/cross-fetch#readme) for a universal [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) implementation. Calls are rate limited to avoid hitting request limits that result in throttling. Throws {Error} if the request does not complete successfully or if the destination URL is not on [canada.ca](https://www.canada.ca).


### `ca.fetch.limiter`

- {Bottleneck}

The [Rate limiter](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#readme) used in `ca.fetch()`.


### `ca.normalize(url[, type])`

- `url` {string|URL} node URL
- `type` {string} Possible values `'path'`, `'children'`, `'content'` or `'meta'`. **Default**: `'path'`
- Returns: {string} Normalized path or URL

Validates and formats www.canada.ca URLs based on type. URLs can take many forms, so not all options will be valid. Throws an error if the URL is invalid, or the type requested is not possible.


### `ca.normalize.baseURL`

- {string}

Base URL used for resolving relative URLs as well as URL validation. Value is `'https://www.canada.ca'`.



## Basic API

### `ca.children(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Object[]} of child nodes

Parses sitemaps to get a list of child nodes.


### `ca.content(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {string|Object}

Retrieves the document contents.  The result depends on the `content-type` header of {Response}:
- `'json'` parses response and fulfills with {Object}
- `'text/html'` compresses whitespace and fulfills with {string}
- Other types are fulfilled as {string} with no modification


### `ca.meta(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Object} with metadata properties

Nodes contain a variety of metadata properties that can be accessed through a public API. Some properties are reformatted for consistency. A separate document will be created as a reference for the most useful ones.


## Extended API

TBD

Commit message:

Add rawContent option to meta() & content()

README.md, after:

# canada-api

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/canada-api?branch=main)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/canada-api) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/dnd-mdn/canada-api/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

Cross platform API for fetching public data from [canada.ca](https://www.canada.ca). 🇨🇦

## Install
### Browsers

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/canada-api@2.0.3"></script>
<script>
    ca.meta("en/department-national-defence").then(meta => {
        console.log(meta)
    })
</script>
```

### Nodejs

```javascript
const ca = require("canada-api")
ca.meta("en/department-national-defence")
```



## Core API

### `ca.fetch(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options) (Some limitations based on implementation)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Response} upon success

Uses [cross-fetch](https://github.com/lquixada/cross-fetch#readme) for a universal [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) implementation. Calls are rate limited to avoid hitting request limits that result in throttling. Throws an {Error} if the request does not complete successfully or if the destination URL is not on [canada.ca](https://www.canada.ca).


### `ca.fetch.limiter`

- {Bottleneck}

The [Rate limiter](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#readme) used in `ca.fetch()`.


### `ca.normalize(url[, type])`

- `url` {string|URL} node URL
- `type` {string} Possible values `'path'`, `'children'`, `'content'` or `'meta'`. **Default**: `'path'`
- Returns: {string} Normalized path or URL

Validates and formats [canada.ca](https://www.canada.ca) URLs based on type. URLs can take many forms, so not all options will be valid. Throws an {Error} if the URL is invalid, or the type requested is not possible.


### `ca.normalize.baseURL`

- {string}

Base URL used for resolving relative URLs as well as URL validation. Value is `'https://www.canada.ca'`.



## Basic API

### `ca.children(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Object[]} of child nodes

Parses sitemaps to get a list of child nodes.


### `ca.content(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
    - `rawContent` {boolean} Fulfills with unmodified text {string} **Default:** `false`
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {string|Object}

Retrieves the document contents.  The result depends on the `content-type` header of {Response}:
- `'json'` parses response and fulfills with {Object}
- `'text/html'` compresses whitespace and fulfills with {string}
- Other types are fulfilled as {string} with no modification


### `ca.meta(url[, options])`

- `url` {string|URL} absolute or relative URL
- `options` {Object} fetch [options](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch#options)
    - `jobOptions` {Object} rate limiter [job options](https://github.com/SGrondin/bottleneck#job-options)
    - `rawContent` {boolean} Fulfills with unmodified text {string} **Default:** `false`
- Returns: {Promise} Fulfills with {Object} with metadata properties

Nodes contain a variety of metadata properties that can be accessed through a public API. Some properties are reformatted for consistency. A separate document will be created as a reference for the most useful ones.


## Extended API

TBD
